[DOCS-2986] Update CWS rules doc to reflect rule split (#12741)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/cloud_workload_security/workload_security_rules.md

## Overview

> With Cloud Workload Security (CWS) enabled, the Datadog Agent actively monitors system activity and evaluates it against a set of rules to detect suspicious behavior. Datadog provides [bundled CWS Agent rules][1] that you receive when you upgrade the Datadog Agent. However, you can write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers the concept of Agent rules and provides instruction on how to create them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Cloud Workload Security (CWS) enabled, the Datadog Agent actively monitors system activity and evaluates it against a set of rules to detect suspicious behavior. 

When you upgrade the Datadog Agent, you receive [bundled CWS Agent rules][1]. You can also write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers Agent rules and how to create them.
```

### Agent rules

> An Agent Rule contains the [Agent Expression][2], which determines which activity to collect from the Agent. These collected events are then evaluated based on patterns of events described in a [rule][3]. A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent rules][1] for your convenience in the default policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Agent Rule contains [Agent Expressions][2] that determine which activities the Agent collects. These captured events are then evaluated based on patterns of events described in a [rule][3]. 

A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides you with several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent rules][1] in the default policy.
```

## Overview

With Cloud Workload Security (CWS) enabled, the Datadog Agent actively monitors system activity and evaluates it against a set of rules to detect suspicious behavior. 

> When you upgrade the Datadog Agent, you receive [bundled CWS Agent rules][1]. You can also write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers Agent rules and how to create them.

Reviewer 2: When you upgrade the Datadog Agent, you receive bundled CWS Agent rules used in our [default Signal Rules ](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/sarina/cws-rule-split/security_platform/default_rules/#cat-workload-security). You can also write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers Agent rules, how to create them, and how to use them to generate security signals.

Reviewer 2: The URL is changed to filter by CWS rules

> When you upgrade the Datadog Agent, you receive [bundled CWS Agent rules][1]. You can also write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers Agent rules and how to create them.

Author: ```suggestion
When you upgrade the Datadog Agent you receive bundled CWS Agent rules, which are used in the [default signal rules][1]. You can also write your own custom Agent rules. This guide covers Agent rules, how to create them, and how to use them to generate security signals.
```

### Agent rules

An Agent Rule contains [Agent Expressions][2] that determine which activities the Agent collects. These captured events are then evaluated based on patterns of events described in a [rule][3]. 

> A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides you with several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent rules][1] in the default policy.

Reviewer 2: A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides you with several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/sarina/cws-rule-split/security_platform/default_rules/#cat-workload-security) Rules powered by the default Agent policy

> A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides you with several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent rules][1] in the default policy.

Author: ```suggestion
A full set of rules for the Agent is called a policy. Datadog provides you with several [out-of-the-box CWS Agent rules][1] powered by the default Agent policy.
```

- `[event_type].file.name`
- `[event_type].file.path`

> **Note**: `[event_type]` can be open or exec, for example.

Reviewer: Do you think "exec" as an executable command should be in monospace here? Feel free to discard this suggestion.

```suggestion
**Note**: `[event_type]` can be open or `exec`, for example.
```

- `[event_type].file.name`
- `[event_type].file.path`

**Note**: `[event_type]` can be open or `exec`, for example.

> Use wildcards (`*`) carefully. For example, never use `open.file.path =~ "*/myfile"`. If you must use wildcards prefixing directories, at least two levels are required: `open.file.path =~ "*/mydir/myfile")`.

Reviewer 2: Can we add an explanation on why we don't recommend using wildcards - ie. can cause name conflict and ambiguities

Approvers are generally more powerful and preferred. Using approvers, the Agent can process only what it needs to see rather than dynamically learning what to filter out.

## Setup and configuration

> ### Create a new default policy file
> 
> First, create a new default policy file to load to the Agent by following the instructions below.

Reviewer: "New" is redundant when we talk about creating (new) things.

```suggestion
### Create a default policy file

First, create a default policy file to load to the Agent by following the instructions below.
```

> 1. In Datadog, navigate to the [Agent Configuration page][4] under Setup and Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Datadog, navigate to the [Agent Configuration page][4] under **Setup & Configuration**.
```

> 2. Click **Add an Agent Rule** in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Add an Agent Rule** in the top right.
```

3. Add a name and description for the rule.

> 4. Define the Agent expression. Enter the rule in the Expression field using Datadog Security Language (SECL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Define the Agent expression by entering the rule in the **Expression** field with Datadog Security Language (SECL).
```

    {{< img src="security_platform/cws/workload_security_rules/define_agent_expression.png" alt="Adding a rule to the Expression field" >}}

    For example, to monitor for suspicious container clients:

    ```text
    exec.file.path in ["/usr/bin/docker", "/usr/local/bin/docker",
    "/usr/bin/kubectl", "/usr/local/bin/kubectl"] && container.id != ""
    ```

> 5. Save the rule. This automatically navigates you back to the Rules page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Save the rule. This automatically navigates you back to the **Rules** page.
```

> 6. Click Download Workload Security Policy in the top right corner to download a default policy file to your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **Download Workload Security Policy** in the top right corner to download a default policy file to your local machine.
```

### Configure the rule

Once your new default policy file is downloaded, navigate to the [**Rules** page][3].

1. Click the **New Rule** button in the top right.

> 2. Select **Workload Security** under **Rule types**. Select a detection method, such as **Threshold** or **New Term**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Workload Security** under **Rule types**. Select a detection method such as **Threshold** or **New Term**.
```

    {{< img src="security_platform/cws/workload_security_rules/rule_cases.png" alt="Setting a rule trigger, severity, and notification" >}}

5. Set a rule trigger, severity, and notification. Name the rule and add the notification message in Markdown format. After the message, add multiple tags to give more context to the signals generated by your custom rule.

    **Note**: Datadog recommends including a remediation runbook in the body. As noted in the template, use substitution variables to dynamically generate contextualized content at runtime.

### Configure the policy in your environment

Complete the next steps based on your environment:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Host" %}}

Copy the `default.policy` file over to the target host in the `{$DD_AGENT}/runtime-security.d` folder. Ensure the file minimally has `read` and `write` access for the `dd-agent` user on the host.

  **Note:** This may require use of a utility such as SCP or FTP.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Helm" %}}

> 1. Create a configmap containing `default.policy`. For example, `kubectl create configmap jdefaultpol --from-file=default.policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a ConfigMap containing `default.policy`. For example, `kubectl create configmap jdefaultpol --from-file=default.policy`.
```

> 2. Add the configMap (`jdefaultpol`) into `values.yaml` with `datadog.securityAgent.runtime.policies.configMap`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the ConfigMap (`jdefaultpol`) into `values.yaml` with `datadog.securityAgent.runtime.policies.configMap`:
```

        enabled: false
    ```

> 3. Upgrade the helm chart with `helm upgrade <RELEASENAME> -f values.yaml --set datadog.apiKey=<APIKEY> datadog/datadog`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Upgrade the Helm chart with `helm upgrade <RELEASENAME> -f values.yaml --set datadog.apiKey=<APIKEY> datadog/datadog`.
```

    **Note:** If you need to make further changes to `default.policy`, you can either use `kubectl edit cm jdefaultpol` or replace the configMap with  `kubectl create configmap jdefaultpol --from-file default.policy -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl replace -f -`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> To finalize setup, restart the [Datadog Agent][5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To finalize your setup, restart the [Datadog Agent][5].
```

        enabled: false
    ```

3. Upgrade the Helm chart with `helm upgrade <RELEASENAME> -f values.yaml --set datadog.apiKey=<APIKEY> datadog/datadog`.

    **Note:** If you need to make further changes to `default.policy`, you can either use `kubectl edit cm jdefaultpol` or replace the configMap with  `kubectl create configmap jdefaultpol --from-file default.policy -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl replace -f -`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

To finalize your setup, restart the [Datadog Agent][5].

## Further Reading
{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: /security_platform/default_rules

Author: ```suggestion
[1]: /security_platform/default_rules/#cat-workload-security
```
